Food is broken down during
the digestion process.
Fats that you eat are processed
in your intestines.
They then are taken up
into the blood stream
and circulate throughout your body
to either be used for energy
or stored for later use.
Fats that reach the liver are
converted by a chemical process
into cholesterol.
There are two types of cholesterol,
good and bad.
High levels of HDL,
or good cholesterol,
seem to protect against heart attacks.
LDL cholesterol, or bad cholesterol,
sticks to the inside walls of
arteries and helps form the plaque
that can block blood flow
to the heart and brain.
Statins block the chemical reaction
within the liver
that leads to production of LDL,
resulting in reduced LDL
cholesterol levels in the blood.